[KOGITO-8314] [KSW-Guides] Using Serverless Operator to deploy workfl… (#265)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/cloud/build-and-deploy-with-serverless-operator-on-kubernetes.adoc

= Build and deploy in Kubernetes a {context} application using the {product_name} {context} Operator

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Build and deploy using the Kogito Serverless Workflow Operator a serverless workflow application

> :keywords: kogito, workflow, serverless, operator, kubernetes, minikube

Reviewer: openshift? :)

Reviewer 2: +1

// links

> :minikube_url: https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io

Reviewer: I think we have this env somewhere, antora.yaml I guess

> :kogitoserverlessoperator_url: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/

Reviewer: maybe kogito_servereless_operator_url

Author: Updated following your suggestion

> :kogitogreetinexample_url: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-examples/serverless-workflow-greeting-quarkus

Reviewer: same

> :kanikoissue_url: https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/issues/2201

Reviewer: same

This document describes how to build and deploy your workflow application using a local Kubernetes cluster, such as link:{minikube_url}[Minikube], along with the link:{kogitoserverlesosperator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator].

> Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator] you will be able both to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application so that you only need the workflow definition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator, you will be able both to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application so that you only need the workflow definition.
```

> Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator] you will be able both to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application so that you only need the workflow definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator] you will be able to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application so that you only need the workflow definition.
```

> Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator] you will be able both to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application so that you only need the workflow definition.

Reviewer: maybe: 

```suggestion
Using the {product_name} Serverless Operator] you will be able both to build and deploy a {product_name} {context} application only by having a workflow definition.
```

> If you already have a container built and pushed on a container registry and you simply want to deploy it on Kubernetes cluster, you can do it without the operator following the guide xref:cloud/deploying-on-kubernetes.adoc[Deploying your {context} application on Kubernetes].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Suppose you already have a container built and pushed on a container registry and you want to deploy it on the Kubernetes cluster. In that case, you can do it without the operator following the guide xref:cloud/deploying-on-kubernetes.adoc[Deploying your {context} application on Kubernetes].
```

> The link:{kogitoserverlesosperator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator] is currently in an alpha version and under active development and at the moment is supporting {context} definition that are using:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The link:{kogitoserverlesosperator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator] is currently in an alpha version and under active development and, at the moment, is supporting {context} definitions that are using:
```

> The link:{kogitoserverlesosperator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator] is currently in an alpha version and under active development and at the moment is supporting {context} definition that are using:

Author: SInce there is a link, I need to close the square braket

* Functions
* States
    - Supported State types:
    - Switch including dataConditions
    - Inject including data with a transition
* Operation including Actions with functionRef with arguments
* KeepActive
* AutoRetries
* ExpressionsLang (jq or jsonpath)

.Prerequisites

> * A workflow definition.

Reviewer: maybe point out to some example if user just want to try?

* A Kubernetes cluster with admin privileges (if you haven't got one prepare and use a local Minikube instance).
* `kubectl` command-line tool is installed. Otherwise, Minikube handles it.

.Prepare a Minikube instance

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 4096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"
----

> NOTE: To speed up, you can increase cpus and memory options. For example, use `--cpus 12 --memory 16384`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
To speed up, you can increase cpus and memory options. For example, use `--cpus 12 --memory 16384`.
====
```

> TIP: If it does work with the default driver, aka `docker`, you can try to start with the `podman` driver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
====
If it does work with the default driver, aka `docker`, you can try to start with the `podman` driver:
====
```

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
minikube start [...] --driver podman
----

> IMPORTANT: There are some issues with the `crio` container runtime and Kaniko that the operator is using. Reference: link:{kanikoissue_url}[ISSUE-2201]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
There are some issues with the `crio` container runtime and Kaniko that the operator is using. Reference: link:{kanikoissue_url}[ISSUE-2201]
====
```

.Setup {product_name} Serverless Operator

In order to have an up and running instance of the {product_name} Serverless Operator you can use the following command:

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/operator.yaml
----

> NOTE: Follow the deployment of the {product_name} Serverless Operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Follow the deployment of the {product_name} Serverless Operator:
====
```

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get pod -n kogito-serverless-operator-system --watch
----

> TIP: You can also follow the operator’s log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
====
You can also follow the operator’s log:
====
```

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs deployment/kogito-serverless-operator-controller-manager -n kogito-serverless-operator-system -f

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----

```

> Once the operator is running it will watch for new custom resources so that you can prepare your environment to be ready to build new {context} based on the definitions you will send to the operator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the operator is running, it will watch for new custom resources so that you can prepare your environment to be ready to build new {context} based on the definitions you will send to the operator.
```

.Prepare for the build

Follow these steps to create a container that you can than deploy as a Service on Kubernetes or KNative.

* Create a namespace for the building phase

Let's create a new namespace that will hold all the resources that we (or the operator) will create (pods, deployments, services, secretes, config map and custom resources) in this guide.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create namespace kogito-workflows
----
* Create a secret for the container registry authentication
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred --docker-server=<registry_url> --docker-username=<registry_username> --docker-password=<registry_password> --docker-email=<registry_email> -n kogito-workflows
----
or you directly import your local docker config into your kubernetes cluster:
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create secret generic regcred --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=${HOME}/.docker/config.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson -n kogito-workflows
----
* Create a Platform containing the configuration (i.e. registry address, secret) for building your workflows

> You can find a basic Platform CR example in the config folder that you can simply apply to configure your operator.

Reviewer 3: I think it's worth explaining more about the `Platform` CR and its purpose.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl apply -f config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml -n kogito-workflows
Note: In this Custom Resource, spec.platform.registry.secret is the name of the secret you created just before.
----

> TIP: You can also update "on-the-fly" the platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
====
You can also update "on-the-fly" the platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>)
====
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cat config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"
----

> NOTE: You can retrieve easly the Cluster IP address of the minikube internal registry using this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
You can retrieve easly the Cluster IP address of the minikube internal registry using this command:
====
```

The link:{kogitoserverlesosperator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator] is currently in an alpha version and under active development and, at the moment, is supporting {context} definitions that are using:

* Functions
* States
    - Supported State types:
    - Switch including dataConditions
    - Inject including data with a transition
* Operation including Actions with functionRef with arguments
* KeepActive
* AutoRetries
* ExpressionsLang (jq or jsonpath)

.Prerequisites
* A workflow definition.
* A Kubernetes cluster with admin privileges (if you haven't got one prepare and use a local Minikube instance).
* `kubectl` command-line tool is installed. Otherwise, Minikube handles it.

.Prepare a Minikube instance

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 4096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"
----

[NOTE]
====
To speed up, you can increase cpus and memory options. For example, use `--cpus 12 --memory 16384`.
====

[TIP]
====

> If it does work with the default driver, aka `docker`, you can try to start with the `podman` driver:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If it does work with the default driver, as known as `docker`, you can try to start with the `podman` driver:
```

====

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
minikube start [...] --driver podman
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
There are some issues with the `crio` container runtime and Kaniko that the operator is using. Reference: link:{kanikoissue_url}[ISSUE-2201]
====

> .Setup {product_name} Serverless Operator

Reviewer 4: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.
```suggestion
.Setup {product_name} Serverless operator 
```

> In order to have an up and running instance of the {product_name} Serverless Operator you can use the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to have an up-and-running instance of the {product_name} Serverless Operator you can use the following command:
```

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/operator.yaml
----

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 4: In my opinion, we can avoid using NOTE. 
```suggestion
Follow the deployment of the {product_name} Serverless Operator as follows:
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get pod -n kogito-serverless-operator-system --watch
----
```

====
Follow the deployment of the {product_name} Serverless Operator:
====
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get pod -n kogito-serverless-operator-system --watch
----

> [TIP]

Reviewer 4: In my opinion, we can avoid using TIP. Can you please let me know if these are optional steps?
```suggestion
You can also follow the operator’s log:
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs deployment/kogito-serverless-operator-controller-manager -n kogito-serverless-operator-system -f
----
```

====
You can also follow the operator’s log:
====
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs deployment/kogito-serverless-operator-controller-manager -n kogito-serverless-operator-system -f
----

Once the operator is running, it will watch for new custom resources so that you can prepare your environment to be ready to build new {context} based on the definitions you will send to the operator.

> .Prepare for the build

Reviewer 4: If it is a procedure module, I would recommend adding a gerund.  
```suggestion
.Preparing for the build
```

> Follow these steps to create a container that you can than deploy as a Service on Kubernetes or KNative.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create a container that you can deploy as a service on Kubernetes or KNative.
```

* Create a namespace for the building phase

> Let's create a new namespace that will hold all the resources that we (or the operator) will create (pods, deployments, services, secretes, config map and custom resources) in this guide.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's create a new namespace that will hold all the resources that we (or the operator) will create (pods, deployments, services, secretes, config map, and custom resources) in this guide.
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create namespace kogito-workflows
----
* Create a secret for the container registry authentication
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred --docker-server=<registry_url> --docker-username=<registry_username> --docker-password=<registry_password> --docker-email=<registry_email> -n kogito-workflows
----
or you directly import your local docker config into your kubernetes cluster:
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create secret generic regcred --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=${HOME}/.docker/config.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson -n kogito-workflows
----

> * Create a Platform containing the configuration (i.e. registry address, secret) for building your workflows

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Create a platform containing the configuration (i.e. registry address, secret) for building your workflows
```

> You can find a basic Platform CR example in the config folder that you can simply apply to configure your operator.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find a basic platform CR example in the config folder that you can simply apply to configure your operator.
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl apply -f config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml -n kogito-workflows
Note: In this Custom Resource, spec.platform.registry.secret is the name of the secret you created just before.
----

[TIP]
====
You can also update "on-the-fly" the platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>)
====

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cat config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"
----

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
You can easily retrieve the Cluster IP address of Minikube's internal registry using the following command:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get svc registry -n kube-system -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'
----
====
```

====
You can retrieve easily the Cluster IP address of the Minikube's internal registry using this command:
====

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get svc registry -n kube-system -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'
----

.Build and deploy your {context} application

> Now we can send to the Operator our Custom Resource that includes the {context} definition.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can now send your custom resource to the operator which includes the {context} definition.
```

> If you would like to deploy a simple {context} application you can use custom resource you can find in the samples folder that is defining the link:{kogitogreetinexample_url}[{product_name} {context} Greeting example].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to deploy a simple {context} application, you can use a custom resource. You can find it in the samples folder that is defining the link:{kogitogreetinexample_url}[{product_name} {context} Greeting example].
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl apply -f config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessworkflow.yaml -n kogito-workflows
----
TIP: You can check the logs of the build of your workflow via:
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs kogito-greeting-builder -n kogito-workflows
----

> The final pushed image should be printed into the logs at the end of the build.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The final pushed image must be printed into the logs at the end of the build.
```

> In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting is up and running let's try to perform a test HTTP call.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting is up and running you can try to perform a test HTTP call.
```

Suppose you already have a container built and pushed on a container registry and you want to deploy it on the Kubernetes cluster. In that case, you can do it without the operator following the guide xref:cloud/deploying-on-kubernetes.adoc[Deploying your {context} application on Kubernetes].

The link:{kogito_serverless_operator_url}[{product_name} Serverless Operator] is currently in an alpha version and under active development and, at the moment, is supporting {context} definitions that are using:

* Functions
* States
    - Supported State types:
    - Switch including dataConditions
    - Inject including data with a transition
* Operation including Actions with functionRef with arguments
* KeepActive
* AutoRetries
* ExpressionsLang (jq or jsonpath)

.Prerequisites
* A workflow definition.
* A Kubernetes cluster with admin privileges (if you haven't got one prepare and use a local Minikube instance).
* `kubectl` command-line tool is installed. Otherwise, Minikube handles it.

.Prepare a Minikube instance

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----

> minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 4096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"

Author: I'm referring to the default cluster IP configuration for minikube as per official doc (https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/registry/#enabling-insecure-registries).

I can mention this in order to highlight that a configuration different from the default one could need changes into the bootstrap parameters.

> minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 4096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"

Reviewer 2: Yes please add a note there, depending on the result of `minikube ip` :)

----

[NOTE]
====
To speed up, you can increase cpus and memory options. For example, use `--cpus 12 --memory 16384`.
====

[TIP]
====
If it does work with the default driver, aka `docker`, you can try to start with the `podman` driver:

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
minikube start [...] --driver podman
----
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
There are some issues with the `crio` container runtime and Kaniko that the operator is using. Reference: link:{kaniko_issue_url}[ISSUE-2201]
====

.Setup {product_name} Serverless operator

In order to have an up-and-running instance of the {product_name} Serverless Operator you can use the following command:

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----

> kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/operator.yaml

Author: What do you think to add a global variable (something like release_tag) so that here we can use it instead to referencing the main evenif I don't know if we can use env variables in code blocks.

> kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/operator.yaml

Reviewer 2: I guess we should add a `operator_version` global attribute in the `antora.yml`
Would be easier to update on a release.

----

[NOTE]
====
Follow the deployment of the {product_name} Serverless Operator:

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get pod -n kogito-serverless-operator-system --watch
----

You can also follow the operator’s log:

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs deployment/kogito-serverless-operator-controller-manager -n kogito-serverless-operator-system -f
----
====

Once the operator is running, it will watch for new custom resources so that you can prepare your environment to be ready to build new {context} based on the definitions you will send to the operator.

.Preparing for the build

Follow these steps to create a container that you can deploy as a service on Kubernetes or KNative.

> * Create a namespace for the building phase

Author: Thnak you very much for these suggestions ;-)

> Let's create a new namespace that will hold all the resources that we (or the operator) will create (pods, deployments, services, secretes, config map, and custom resources) in this guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create a new namespace that will hold all the resources that we (or the operator) will create (pods, deployments, services, secretes, config map, and Custom Resources) in this guide.
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create namespace kogito-workflows
----
* Create a secret for the container registry authentication
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred --docker-server=<registry_url> --docker-username=<registry_username> --docker-password=<registry_password> --docker-email=<registry_email> -n kogito-workflows
----
or you directly import your local docker config into your kubernetes cluster:

> [source,bash,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.Create a secret for the container registry authentication based on local docker config
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
```

----
kubectl create secret generic regcred --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=${HOME}/.docker/config.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson -n kogito-workflows
----

> * Create a platform containing the configuration (i.e. registry address, secret) for building your workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

=== Create a {product_name} Serverless Platform containing the configuration (i.e. registry address, secret) for building your workflows
```

> The Platform CR is the resource used to control the behavior of the {product_name} {context} operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {product_name} Serverless Platform CR is the resource used to control the behavior of the {product_name} Serverless Operator.
```

> 
> It defines the behavior of all Custom Resources (Workflow and Build) in the given namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It defines the behavior of all Custom Resources (Workflow and Build) in the given namespace.
```

> Since the {product_name} {context} operator is installed in global mode, you will need to specify a Platform CR in each namespace where you want the operator to be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the {product_name} Serverless Operator is installed in global mode, you will need to specify a {product_name} Serverless Platform CR in each namespace where you want the operator to be executed.
```

> 
> You can find a basic Platform CR example in the config folder that you can simply apply to configure your operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find a basic {product_name} Serverless Platform CR example in the `config/samples` folder that you can simply apply to configure your operator.
```

Reviewer 2: I think we should release the samples with the Operator. Like we do with the `operator.yaml` file. Wdyt ?

Author: I agree with this approach, since they are in the standard config/sample folder aren't we already do it?

Reviewer 2: for now we only add the `operator.yaml` file but we could add more if needed
See https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/blob/main/.ci/jenkins/scripts/helper.groovy#L82

> [source,bash,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Create a {product_name} Serverless Platform CR
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
```

----

> kubectl apply -f config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml -n kogito-workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml -n kogito-workflows
```

> Note: In this Custom Resource, spec.platform.registry.secret is the name of the secret you created just before.

Reviewer 2: Please extract this from the command as a specific `NOTE` part

----

[TIP]
====

> You can also update "on-the-fly" the platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also update "on-the-fly" the {product_name} Serverless Platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>)
```

> [source,bash,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Create a {product_name} Serverless Platform CR with a specific registry
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
```

----

> cat config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"

Reviewer 2: This command should also `kubectl apply` the result in the pipe

> cat config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"
```

----

In order to retrieve the Cluster IP address of Minikube's internal registry use the following command:

> [source,bash,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Retrieve Minikube registry internal IP
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
```

----

> kubectl get svc registry -n kube-system -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'

Reviewer 2: What about using the external registry address ?
as  Minikube has been started with the insecure-registry, it is easier for the user to understand

Author: If you start minikube with the suggested parameters including the insecure-registry one and you check the output of the command:
`kubectl get service --namespace kube-system`
there isn't an external IP available for the registry.
In the Platform CR we need to put an IP address that could be reachable for the Kaniko pod because the push will be performed by a pod inside the cluster.
Isn't this the easiest way?

Reviewer 2: When using the minikube registry addon, the registry is available externally on `$(minikube ip):5000` port
but internal IP will do indeed. Maybe set the explanation why so.

> ----

Reviewer 2: Use another TIP panel for this one as it is specific to Minikube.

====

> .Build and deploy your {context} application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Build and deploy your {context} application
```

> You can now send your custom resource to the operator which includes the {context} definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now send your {product_name} {context} Custom Resource to the operator which includes the {context} definition.
```

> If you want to deploy a simple {context} application, you can use a custom resource. You can find it in the samples folder that is defining the link:{kogitogreetinexample_url}[{product_name} {context} Greeting example].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find a basic {product_name} {context} Custom Resource in the `config/samples` folder that is defining the link:{kogitogreetinexample_url}[{product_name} {context} Greeting example].
```

idem here, we should used a release version file

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----

> kubectl apply -f config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessworkflow.yaml -n kogito-workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f ttps://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessworkflow.yaml -n kogito-workflows
```

----
You can check the logs of the build of your workflow via:

> [source,bash,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Get the {product_name} {context} application pod logs
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
```

----
kubectl logs kogito-greeting-builder -n kogito-workflows
----

> The final pushed image must be printed into the logs at the end of the build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The final pushed image must be printed into the logs at the end of the build.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

== Check the {product_name} {context} application is running
```

> In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting is up and running you can try to perform a test HTTP call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting application is up and running, you can try to perform a test HTTP call.
```

----
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml -n kogito-workflows
----

Note: In this Custom Resource, spec.platform.registry.secret is the name of the secret you created just before.

[TIP]
====
You can also update "on-the-fly" the {product_name} Serverless Platform CR registry field with this command (change <YOUR_REGISTRY>)

.Create a {product_name} Serverless Platform CR with a specific registry
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessplatform.yaml | sed "s|address: .*|address: <YOUR_REGISTRY>"
----

In order to retrieve the Cluster IP address of Minikube's internal registry use the following command:

.Retrieve Minikube registry internal IP
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl get svc registry -n kube-system -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'
----
====

== Build and deploy your {context} application

You can now send your {product_name} {context} Custom Resource to the operator which includes the {context} definition.

> You can find a basic {product_name} {context} Custom Resource in the `config/samples` folder that is defining the link:{kogitogreetinexample_url}[{product_name} {context} Greeting example].

Reviewer 2: link issue here

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----

> kubectl apply -f ttps://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessworkflow.yaml -n kogito-workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-serverless-operator/main/config/samples/sw.kogito_v1alpha08_kogitoserverlessworkflow.yaml -n kogito-workflows
```

----
You can check the logs of the build of your workflow via:

.Get the {product_name} {context} application pod logs
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
kubectl logs kogito-greeting-builder -n kogito-workflows
----

The final pushed image must be printed into the logs at the end of the build.

== Check the {product_name} {context} application is running

> In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting application is up and running, you can try to perform a test HTTP call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting application is up and running, you can try to perform a test HTTP call, from the greeting pod.
```

> In order to check that the {product_name} {context} Greeting application is up and running, you can try to perform a test HTTP call.

Reviewer 2: Maybe the user would like to see the result from outside the cluster, with an ingress I guess ... wdyt ?

Author: We can also expose the service outside changing switch it to Nodeport with a command like:
`kubectl patch svc greeting -n kogito-workflows -p '{"spec": {"type": "NodePort"}}'`
Do you think that it could be fine since it is only a local test with one service?

Reviewer 2: `NodePort` should do it yes :)

Author: Updated accordingly ;-)
